# institute-management

This repository encompasses the necessary components for Dockerization and CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete)
operations on institute management.

## Authorization

For authorization, use Basic Authentication with the following credentials:

```auth
Username: admin
Password: admin
```

Include these credentials in the headers of your requests when testing with tools like Postman.

Configure PostgreSQL in application.yaml:
Ensure your application.yaml or application.properties file includes the necessary PostgreSQL configurations:

yaml Copy code

```bash

spring:
  datasource:
    url: jdbc:postgresql://your-postgresql-host:5432/your_database_name
    username: your_username
    password: your_password
    driver-class-name: org.postgresql.Driver
  jpa:
    hibernate:
      ddl-auto: update
    show-sql: true
```

Replace your-postgresql-host, your_database_name, your_username, and your_password with your actual PostgreSQL server
details.

## Build the Spring Boot Application:

Open a terminal and navigate to your project directory. Execute the following command to build your Spring Boot
application:

```gradle
./gradlew clean build
```

## Create a Dockerfile:

Save the following Dockerfile in the root directory of your project. This file copies the JAR file generated by Gradle
and sets up the entry point:

Dockerfile Copy code

```docker

FROM openjdk:17
COPY build/libs/institute-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar institute-1.0.0.jar
ENTRYPOINT ["java", "-jar", "/institute-1.0.0.jar"]
```

## Build the Docker Image:

Run the following command to build the Docker image:

```docker
docker build -t institute-app .
```

This command builds a Docker image named institute-app using the provided Dockerfile.

## Run the Docker Container:

Once the image is built, start a Docker container using the following command:

```docker
docker run -p 8080:8080 institute-app
```

This command runs a container based on the institute-app image.

Ensure that Docker is installed on your system before proceeding with these steps. This formalized approach helps in
clearly understanding and executing each step of the process.

## Create Institute

Create a new institute by sending a POST request to /institute/api/create. The request body should contain a valid
Institute object.

Example:

```create
POST /institute/api/create
Content-Type: application/json

{
    "instituteName": "Sample Institute",
    "location": "Sample Location",
    "contactInformation": 1234567891,
    "email": "sample@email.com",
    "establishmentYear": 1800,
    "websiteUrl": "http://www.sampleinstitute.com"
}
```

Example Response:

```create
HTTP/1.1 201 Created
{
    "id": 1,
    "instituteName": "Sample Institute",
    "location": "Sample Location",
    "contactInformation": 1234567891,
    "email": "sample@email.com",
    "establishmentYear": 1800,
    "websiteUrl": "http://www.sampleinstitute.com"
}
```

## Fetch Institute List

To retrieve a list of all institutes, send a GET request to /institute/api/list.

## Fetch Institute by ID

To retrieve details of a specific institute by ID, send a GET request to /institute/api/{id} where {id} is the
institute's ID.

## Update Institute by ID

To update the details of a specific institute by ID, send a PUT request to /institute/api/{id} where {id} is the
institute's ID. The request body should contain a valid Institute object.

## Partial Update Institute by ID

To partially update the details of a specific institute by ID, send a PATCH request to /institute/api/{id}, where {id}
is the institute's ID. The request body should contain a valid InstituteRequest object, allowing you to update specific
fields of the institute.

## Delete Institute by ID

To delete a specific institute by ID, send a DELETE request to /institute/api/delete with the institute's ID as a query
parameter.